---
layout: post
title: Que Sera, Sera
slug: ka-cir-ah
date: '2017-02-13T20:11:00.000-05:00'
modified:
excerpt: I feel special, and that says more about you than me.
tags:
- bare-with-me
---

Once the wait staff at my favorite bar gave me the Distiller's Edition of my favorite Scotch. It was Christmas, but none of the other regulars were gifted a bottle of Oban.

At two different restaurants in two separate cities, the first time I walked in a waiter I'd never met before asked if I wanted my "usual." I said yes both times.

In middle school I taught myself math for 3 years. In high school and college they created classes just so I'd have something to do. My high school counselor applied to college for me. My college advisor registered me for classes.

I've nearly died more times than I can count - more close calls than I could hope to remember. I've had unbelievable friends, exceptional jobs, and have been places few people will ever see. And stories... so many stories.

I'm not bragging. I don't think I'm special. Other people think I'm special. At least, they treat me like I'm special. But I don't feel special.

You make me feel special.

That says much more about you than me.

I just don't know what that says about you.

Don't worry - I'm not in any rush to take away your fun. Go right on making me feel special. Continue confusing me in the process. I'm enjoying it at least as much as you are.

Will I find out what that says about you? Who can say? As Doris Day sang in "Que Sera, Sera" (pronounced "ka cir-ah cir-ah") - the future's not ours to see.