---
layout: post
title: Fear
slug: fear
date: '2019-06-17T13:11:00.000-05:00'
modified:
excerpt: The willingness to believe even in the absence of direct evidence.
tags:
- bare-with-me
---

Racism has always baffled me.  Elitism in any form often makes my head hurt. I don't understand why we spend so much time trying to fit someone into a bucket labeled Us or Them, and an even greater amount of time trying to justify why it's a good idea for the Us's to do things without the Them's. 

Back when I could handle going to church, I had a tough time going to men's events, or single's events, or adult-only events. I've heard tons of reasons for why men and women shouldn't study things together. They're all nonsense.

There is exactly one reason people join homogenous communities - the belief that no one rocks the boat if everyone in the boat is exactly the same. You won't have to answer any challenging questions if everyone finds the question challenging. If anyone starts asking challenging questions, they clearly don't belong, and will shortly find themselves swimming.

In the tech industry, you'll frequently run into the term "imposter syndrome" - the idea that one of the things perpetually noodling around in your noodle is that someone is going to figure out you don't belong. This is so prevelant that I'm currently a member of an organization that so normalizes imposter syndrome that not admitting a dramatic level of imposter syndrome can itself out you as an imposter.

In any us vs. them situation, folks in the "us" have to continually prove they aren't a "them", and the easiest way is to widen the gap between the two. In christian communities that spend a ton of time distinguishing between men and women, you'll find over-the-top gender stereotypes. Those stereotypes keep the peace in those communities by making it very clear exactly which box everyone is in.

For a long time, I thought that elitism was fueled by imposter syndrome. I assumed that the harder you have to work to separate us from them, the more likely you are to believe that the group you're part of is better than the group you're thankfully not.

That's just simply not true. I mean, it might be a little true. But that's not why the us's try to separate from the them's.

Please hear this - I'm not trying to accuse anyone of anything. I finally understand racism. I get it. I'm going to say some hard things no matter what you feel, believe, and think. 

Racism, elitism, or men's bible studies are all based on one fundamental root cause - fear - irrational, unjustified fear.

You're not afraid of what women might say in a shared study. You're afraid that you have no idea what women might say. You're not afraid of what black folk might do if they weren't physically, economically, and emotionally attacked on all fronts. You're afraid that you have no idea what black folk might do.

It might not be obvious, but armed with this knowledge go watch the Central Park Karen video again. Everyone thinks she's calling the cops because she's uncomfortable. I have a ton of respect for Baratunde Thurston, but this isn't about comfort. She's truly terrified. She's in full on fight mode. She knows in her heart of hearts that no black man has ever been a bird watcher. She knows beyond a shadow of a doubt that she is not getting out of that park in one piece. She just doesn't have any idea how that will play out. She's feigning all the strength she can because she thinks that's the only thing keeping her alive. Everyone watching that video knows that her life is in absolutely no danger. She thinks she's never been in more.

I'm not trying to defend her; what she did is unconscionable. I'm trying to point out just how irrationally afraid she is. We didn't address her fear, we just publically shamed her. And half the country believes they would have done the same thing in her shoes. They feel that shaming is an attack on them too. They feel their fear is justified.

A lot of police are irrationally afraid. A lot of white folk are irrationally afraid. And that irrational fear is fueling their irrational justification for horrific behavior.

This is key. We can have all the police reform we want. We can have all the policy changes we want. We can make any societal changes we want. But if we don't tackle this irrational fear head on then there is exactly one thing that's going to happen.

Irrational white folk have a lot of guns. They're going to do a lot of irrational things. Remember that almost half of this country believes it was in the corporate good to separate women from their children and lock them both in cages for the crime of believing that America was better than certain death in their home country. This was justified because they were an "invading force" - an absurd baseless claim fueled by irrational fear.

So here is the horrifying truth - if we defund the police without specifically targetting the irrational fear fueling racism, the police are going to feel like the better of two evils a little too late. This country has never stopped lynching. Ahmaud Arbery was lynched - grab your gun, round up your neighbors, head 'im off at the pass lynched. And then 3 separate prosecutors said there was no need for an arrest for a murder in cold blood in the middle of the street. This is what irrational fear looks like, and it needs to end now.

I don't have a solution to the fear. I don't know that there is one. But American history is riddled with the consequences of what happens when we try to pretend that black folk can be equal just because the folks who aren't afraid say so. How many communities have to be bombed and burned before we realize we have to do something more than get like-minded folk to walk a few miles in the street? I'm tired of my fellow Americans dying. It's time to stop playing word games with our lives and tackle the real problem.

